# Composite Index Score Calculator

## What does it do?
This tool uses Python and the ArcPy and NumPy libraries to calculate a Composite Index Score for a variable in ArcGIS.

## Example of what it does
Baltimore City has 200 Census Tracts containing 25213 vacant homes (range 0 - 462). For each Census Tract, the number of vacant homes in that Census Tract is divided by the total number of vacant homes in all Census Tracts. This ratio is then divided by the max number of vacant homes in a single Census Tract in order to normalize the value between 0 and 1.

v = count of vacant homes in a specific Census Tract

t = count of total vacant homes in all Census Tracts

g = ratio of Census Tract with greatest count of Census Tracts to total count of vacant homes

formula = ( (v / t) / g )

e.g. Census Tract 1604 has 381 vacant homes so the formula would be:

Greatest count of vacant homes in a single Census Tract is Census Tract 1504 with 462 vacant homes.

g = 462/25213 

g = 0.018324

( ( 381 / 25213) / 0.018324 )

( 0.015111 / 0.018324)

( 0.824656 ) <--- index score


## Why did I make this?
I read [this](http://webra.cas.sc.edu/hvri/docs/gtown.pdf) article about Social Vulnerability and hazards. In order to assess Social Vulnerability, they needed to score and normalize the variables. I thought this would be an interesting challenge. They used this method for 14 of  15 variables, all except Mean Home Value.


## What are known problems about this tool?
I haven't tested this for null values.
This tool only works for one variable at a time. You could potentially loop through many variables to get multiple variables done in one run but I haven't done that. If you do it, please share!
